>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
APRIL 13th, THE UKRAINIAN CRISIS
ESCALATES AS GOVERNMENT FORCES
BATTLE PRO-RUSSIAN
SECESSIONISTS.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT FRO
VANCOUVER, CANADA, A RADICAL
PLAN TO CONTROL THE SPREAD O
HIV, HELPING USERS TAKE ILLEGA
DRUGS SAFELY
AND WHAT IS THIS CONTROVERSIAL
DOCUMENT SAY ABOUT JESUS
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
>> THANK YOUS FOR JOINING US
THERE HAS BEEN A SHARP
ESCALATION OF THE CRISIS I
UKRAINE.
GOVERNMENT FORCES TODAY ATTACKED
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS WHO HA
SEIZED GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AN
POLICE STATIONS NEAR THE RUSSIAN
BORDER
THERE ARE REPORTS OF CASUALTIE
ON BOTH SIDES.
THE ACTING PRESIDENT OF UKRAIN
CALLED IT THE START OF A MAJOR
OFFENSIVE BY THE UKRAINIAN ARMY.
>> Translator: THE NATIONA
SECURITY AND DEFENSE COUNCIL
DECIDED TO LAUNCH A FULL-SCALE
ANTI-TERRORIST OPERATION USING
THE ARMED FORCES OF UKRAINE.
WE WON'T LET RUSSIA REPEAT THE
CRIMEA SCENARIO.
>> THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTR
CALLED THAT DECISION A CRIMINA
ORDER AND SAID IT IS NOW THE
WEST'S RESPONSIBILITY TO PREVENT
A CIVIL WAR IN UKRAINE, DESPIT
THE KREMLIN'S DENIALS, THE
UNITED STATES HAS ACCUSED MOSCOW
OF CAPTURING THE BUILDINGS WHERE
AMMUNITION HAD BEEN STORED
DURING AN INTERVIEW, SAMANTH
POWER WARNS OF NEW SANCTIONS O
MOSCOW ON TOP OF THOSE IMPOSED
WHEN RUSSIAN TROOPED INVADED
CRIMEA
>> THEY HAVE BROUGHT THE RUBLE
TO AN ALL-TIME LOW IN TERMS OF
ITS VALUE.
THE RUSSIAN STOCK MARKET HAS
DIMINISHED BY 20%.
THAT'S JUST BASED ON THE
SANCTIONS UP TO THIS POINT
THE PRESIDENT HAS MADE CLEAR
DEPENDING ON RUSSIAN BEHAVIOR,
ENERGY, MINING COULD BE ON THE
TABLE.
>> TENS OF THOUSANDS OF RUSSIA
TROOPS HAVE BEEN SENT TO THE
RUSSIAN SIDE OF TH
RUSSIA-UKRAINE BORDER.
FOR MORE ON THE INTENSIV
BATTLE, WE'RE JOINED BY PETER.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING, WHAT ARE
YOU SEEING RIGHT NOW
>> EARLIER TODAY, I WAS IN A
TOWN WHICH IS ABOUT AN HOUR AN
A HALF DRIVE AWAY FROM HERE,
WHICH HAS BEEN OCCUPIED AS O
YESTERDAY BY A GROUP OF ARME
GUNMEN
WHAT WAS RATHER INTERESTIN
ABOUT WHAT WE SAW TODAY, A
OPPOSED TO YESTERDAY, WAS WHAT
WE SAW YESTERDAY WAS GROUPS OF
MEN IN CAMOUFLAGE, CLEARLY WEL
TRAINED AND WELL PREPARED,
TOWARD THEIR SEIZURE OF TH
POLICE STATION, AND LATER IN THE
DAY, THE SECURITY FORCES, BU
THOSE PEOPLE HAVE SINCE THEN
BEEN REPLACED BY CLEARLY WHA
ARE SOMETIMES JOKINGLY REFERRE
TO CONCERNED LOCALS.
LOCAL PEOPLE, MANY OF THEM WIT
GUNS
THIS HAS BEEN A PATTERN WE HAV
SEEN IN EASTERN UKRAINE OVER THE
LAST WEEK, LET'S SAY THE FUTUR
OF THE GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AN
THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE
OCCUPATION BY LOCAL PROTESTERS
>> WHEN YOU TALK TO THE LOCA
PEOPLE OUT THERE, WHAT'S THE
MOOD
ARE THEY -- DO THEY THINK THAT A
SHOWDOWN IS IMMINENT
DO THEY THINK THEY WILL BE
ANNEXED BY RUSSIA?
>> WELL, I MEAN, MANY OF THE
LOCALS WHO ATTEMPT TO GATHER
AROUND THE ACTUAL SEIZED
BUILDINGS THEMSELVES ARE
ACTUALLY VERY ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
THE NATION OF AUTONOMY FIRST AND
THEN PRESUMABLY ANNEXATION B
RUSSIA IN THE FUTURE
IT'S VERY DANGEROUS TO ASSUM
THAT THAT REFLECTS ACTUALLY TH
GENERAL OPINION IN THIS PART O
THE COUNTRY.
IN FACT, POLLING SUGGESTS THAT
THE PROSPECT OF ANNEXATION B
RUSSIA IS IN FACT NOT ONE THAT
MOST PEOPLE WOULD WELCOME.
BUT THE MOOD IS, I WOULD SAY
EXTREMELY TENSE.
GERMANS IN PARTICULAR, WESTERN
AND UKRAINIAN GERMANS COMING
FROM THE BASE, CONSISTEN
AGGRESSION, NOT ONLY FROM TH
ARMED MEN WHO HAVE SEIZED TH
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, BUT ALSO
FROM A LOT OF THE LOCA
POPULATION WHO CONSIDER TH
WESTERN MEDIA TO IN SOME WAY B
COMPLICIT WITH WHAT THEY DEEM TO
BE THE BROAD WESTERN COMMUNITY'S
ATTEMPT TO UNDERMINE UKRAINE
THIS IS THE OUTCOME ESSENTIALL
OF VERY SUSTAINED RUSSIAN STAT
TELEVISION COVERAGE OF THE
EVENT.
UKRAINE HAS BASICALLY PAINTE
THE POLITICAL PROCESS IN UKRAINE
AS THE OUTCOME OF WHAT THE
WOULD DESCRIBE AS WESTER
MEDDLING
>> AND WHAT ABOUT THE PROSPECT
THERE MIGHT BE LARGE-SCALE
ANTI-TERRORISM ACTIONS TAKEN B
UKRAINE?
>> WELL, WHAT THIS POINTS TO
ESSENTIALLY IS THE FACT THAT THE
GOVERNMENT DOESN'T -- SEEMS TO
HAVE LOST CONTROL OF PARTS O
THE EAST TO THE EXTENT THAT THEY
DON'T APPEAR TO REALLY HAV
CONTROL OVER THE POLICE IN ANY
MEANINGFUL FASHION, AND AS A
RESULT, IT WOULD SEEM TODAY THAT
THEY HAVE HAD TO RESORT TO
DEPLOYING THE ARMY TO REGAIN
CONTROL OVER THIS SPART OF THE
COUNTRY.
THIS OBVIOUSLY TAKES THE WHOLE
SITUATION FROM ONE OF SIMPLY A
LAW ENFORCEMENT ISSUE, WHICH
THEY HAVE REALLY PROVEN VERY
SHORT OF THE TASK OF ACTUALL
COPING WITH, TO POTENTIALLY
MILITARY OFFENSIVE, AND THAT
SEEMS LIKE A VERY SERIOUS AN
WORRYING STEP INDEED
>> ALL RIGHT, PETER LEONARD OF
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS JOINING U
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
>>> THERE HAVE BEEN SHOOTING
THIS AFTERNOON NEAR KANSAS CITY.
APPARENTLY TARGETING JEWS, AND
ACCORDING TO AUTHORITIES, ON
PERSON HAS BEEN KILLED AND
ANOTHER CRITICALLY WOUNDED
ONE SHOOTING TOOK PLACE AT A
JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER, ANOTHER
AT A JEWISH ASSISTED LIVIN
CENTER
A MAN TWEETED HE SAW A MAN TAKEN
INTO CUSTODY BY POLICE
HE QUOTED THE MAN AS SAYING MEAL
HITLER
>> THERE'S BEEN SHOOTINGS IN
CHICAGO IN A SERIES OF INCIDENTS
ACROSS THE CITY YESTERDA
AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
SOME NEIGHBORHOODS IN CHICAG
HAVE BEEN PLAGUED BY GAN
VIOLENCE IN RECENT YEARS
THE CITY'S VIOLENCE RATE HAD
DECLINED DRAMATICALLY LAST YEA
AND HAS BEEN FALLING AGAIN THI
YEAR
>> BEEF LEVELS IN THE U.S. ARE
AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS SINCE TH
LATE 1980s
EXPERTS ATTRIBUTE THE RISING
PRICES TO A DWINDLING NUMBER O
CATTLE AND RISING EXPORT DEMAN
FROM PLACES LIKE CHINA AND
JAPAN.
PRICES ARE LIKELY TO STAY HIGH
UNTIL CATTLE PRODUCERS CAN
REBUILD THEIR HERDS.
>> THE THIRD INSTALLMENT OF
U.N. CLIMATE CHANGE REPORT WAS
RELEASED TODAY AND WARNED TIME
IS RUNNING OUT TO ADDRESS TH
PROBLEM.
THE REPORT FOUND SOME REASON FOR
OPTIMISM, NOTING THAT THE COST
OF CERTAIN RENEWABLE SOURCES O
ENERGY ARE FALLING, MAKING THEIR
USE MORE PRACTICAL, BUT IT SAI
CARMEN EMISSIONS ROSE TWICE AS
FAST BETWEEN 2000 AND 2010 THA
IN THE '90s AND MUST BE SLOWED
TO AVOID A POTENTIAL DISASTER.
VISIT PBSNEWPBSNEWS.ORG.
>>> POPE FRANCEs CELEBRATED MASS
BY URGING THE THOUSANDS IN THE
SQUARE TO LOOK INTO THEIR OW
HEARTS AND EXAMINE HOW THEY'RE
LIVING THEIR LIVES
IN WHAT WAS DESCRIBED AS A MAJOR
DEPARTURE FROM TRADITION, HE
SPOKE EXTRANEOUSLY
AFTER, HE POSED FOR SELFIES WITH
MANY IN THE CROWD.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
THOUGH THE STORY HAS FADED FRO
THE HEADLINES, AIDS CONTINUES TO
CLAIM AN ESTIMATED 2 MILLION
LIVES AROUND THE WORLD EVERY
YEAR
THOUSANDS ARE STILL BEIN
INFECTED WITH THE HIV VIRUS,
ESPECIALLY THOSE USING IV DRUGS,
BUT RESEARCHERS IN BRITISH
COLUMBIA, CANADA, HAVE DEVELOPED
AN AIDS PREVENTION PROGRAM AIMED
AT ADDICTS WHICH IS BECOMING A
MODEL FOR MUCH OF THE WORLD.
ONE WORD OF WARNING, SOME OF
WHAT YOU'LL SEE IN THIS REPORT
IS DIFFICULT TO WATCH.
>> VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA
IS CONSIDERED ONE OF THE MOS
BEAUTIFUL, LIVABLE CITIES IN
NORTH AMERICA, BUT THERE'S A
SMALL PART OF THE CITY THAT IS
STUNNING IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
THE DOWNTOWN EASTSID
NEIGHBORHOOD IS A GRIM REMINDE
OF THE TOLL DRUG ADDICTION
TAKES.
EVERYWHERE YOU LOOK, EMACIATED
ADDICTS WALK THE STREETS
POLICE GENERALLY DON'T SEE THE
POINT OF LOCKING THEM UP
DRUGS ARE EXCHANGED OPENLY I
BROAD DAYLIGHT
WOMEN ON THE STREET PROSTITUTE
THEMSELVES
OVER THE COURSE OF A FEW
CONCENTRATED BLOCKS, YOU'LL SE
PEOPLE SMOKING CRACK ON TH
SIDEWALKS OR INJECTING
THEMSELVES IN AN ALLEY WIT
HEROIN OR COCAINE.
NOT SURPRISINGLY, THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD HAS BEEN VISITED BY
ANOTHER PLAGUE
BACK IN THE 1990s, THIS WAS TH
EPICENTER FOR ONE OF THE FASTEST
GROWING AIDS EPIDEMICS IN TH
WORLD.
>> VANCOUVER EXPERIENCES WHA
HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS THE MOST
EXPLOSIVE EPIDEMIC OF THE AIDS
VIRUS SINCE SUBSAHARAN AFRICA.
THINGS HAVE CHANGED.
IT'S HAPPENING, SUPPORTERS SAY
BY GIVING FREE HIV MEDICATION TO
ADDICTS WHO SHARE NEEDLES.
THEY'RE ALSO STEERING ADDICTS TO
THIS CONTROVERSIAL FACILIT
WHERE MEDICAL STAFF MIGH
ACTUALLY HELP THEM INJEC
ILLEGAL DRUGS.
THE STRATEGY BEING DEPLOYED IN
BRITISH COLUMBIA IS BEIN
STUDIED CLOSELY BY THE U.S., B
CHINA, AND BY EUROPE FOR HOW
IT'S SUCCESSFULLY FOUGHT A
EPIDEMIC IN A VERY HARD TO REACH
POPULATION
SO HOW DOES IT WORK?
SOMETIMES IT STARTS WITH PEOPL
LIKE TRACY, POUNDING THE
PAVEMENT
SHE'S A REGISTERED NURSE, ONE OF
A SMALL ARMY OF NURSES WORKING
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> I THOUGHT NURSES ALWAYS WOR
WHITE SHOES, WHAT'S THE DEAL
>> YOU DON'T WEAR WHITE SHOES ON
THE DOWNTOWN EAST SIDE, THAT'S
FOR SURE
>> WITH HER MADICAL KIT STRAPPED
TO HER BACK, SHE'S OFF TO SE
ONE OF THE DOZEN OR SO
HIV-POSITIVE PATIENTS SHE CARE
FOR WHEREVER THEY ARE.
>> IF I HAVE TO COME IN TH
ALLEY TO FIND YOU, NO PROBLEM.
IF I HAVE TO COME TO YOUR HOME
NO PROBLEM
>> DE SOUZA IS WORKING WIT
COLIN TODAY, WHO SHE'S KNOWN FOR
SEVERAL YEARS.
HE LIKELY CONTRACTED HIV THROUGH
SHARING A NEEDLE, AND EVEN
THOUGH HE'S STILL USING, HE'
SEEN DE SOUZA OR OTHER NURSE
EVERY FEW WEEKS AND HE
DILIGENTLY TAKES HIV RETROACTIVE
DRUGS ON HIS OWN
>> IT'S A FALLACY JUST BECAUSE
PEOPLE ARE USING DRUGS O
SELLING SEX, THEY DON'T CARE
ABOUT THEIR HEALTH
I THINK THEY CARE VERY MUCH.
I THINK BECAUSE OF THEIR MENTA
HEALTH AND ADDICTION ISSUES, I
MIGHT BE TOUGHER
>> THIS EARLY AND CONSISTENT HIV
TREATMENT IS A CENTRAL PILLAR OF
BRITISH COLUMBIA'S STRATEGY AN
ONE THAT BEGAN WITH IMPORTAN
DISCOVERIES BY THIS MAN'S TEAM
>> I SAY, OH, MY GOD
THIS IS HUGE
THIS ACTUALLY CAN TURN I
AROUND
>> DR. JULIO IS ONE OF THE
WORLD'S EXPERTS ON TREATING HIV.
BORN IN ARGENTINA, HE'S NOW
CANADIAN, HE HELPED FOUND TH
BRITISH COLUMBIA CENTER FO
SLENLS IN HIV/AIDS
BACK IN THE MID-1990s, HIS TEA
WAS ONE OF THE FIRST T
DEMONSTRATE WHAT WAS THEN
CONTESTED IDEA THAT AGGRESSIVELY
TREATING HIV IN INDIVIDUALS NO
ONLY HELPED THEM BUT CAN PREVENT
THE SPREAD ACROSS AN ENTIR
COMMUNITY.
HERE'S HOW
IT'S WELL KNOWN THAT PEOPLE WITH
UNTREATED HIV ARE FULL OF TH
VIRUS, AND IF THEY SHARE A
NEEDLE WITH OTHERS, THEY'R
LIKELY INFECT THEM AND SPREA
THE DISEASE, BUT TREATING THOS
ORIGINAL PATIENTS WITH HIV
MEDICINE DRAMATICALLY SUPPRESSES
THE AMOUNT OF VIRUS IN THEIR
BLOOD, WHICH RESEARCH HAS SHOW
MAKES TRANSMISSION TO OTHERS
MUCH LESS LIKELY
ACCORDING TO THE DOCTOR, IT'
OVER 90% LESS LIKELY
>> IN FACT, THE SINGLE MOS
POWERFUL PREDICTOR OF YOU AS A
INJECTION DRUG USER TO CONTRAC
HIV WAS THE AMOUNT OF VIRUS THAT
WAS IN THE COMMUNITY
WHICH UPON BRINGING TREATMENT TO
THAT COMMUNITY, CAME DOWN AND SO
THE NUMBER OF INFECTIONS CAM
DOWN
IN OTHER WORDS, IT'S NOT THE
NEEDLE, STUPID, IT'S THE VIRUS
>> THESE FINDINGS TRIGGERED AN
EVEN MORE AGGRESSIVE CAMPAIGN TO
TEST AS MANY PEOPLE AS POSSIBL
AND GET ANYONE WHO TESTE
POSITIVE ONTO THE MEDS A
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.
THIS OVERALL STRATEGY IS NOW
CALLED TREATMENT AS PREVENTION
>> WE'LL GET THE RESULTS RIGHT
AWAY
>> BUT PUBLIC HEALTH ADVOCATES
IN BRITISH COLUMBIA DIDN'T STO
THERE.
THE DOCTOR ALONG WITH MANY
OTHERS PUSHED FOR THE CREATION
OF THIS FACILITY WHICH IS CALLED
INSIGHT.
>> SO INSIGHT IS A VERY UNIQUE
FACILITY
IT'S THE ONLY ONE OF ITS KIND IN
NORTH AMERICA.
>> DR. THOMAS KERR IS AN AID
RESEARCHER WHO WORKS AT TH
DOCTOR'S CENTER AND HAS DONE
SEVERAL PUBLISHED STUDIES OF
INSIGHT.
>> IT'S A PLACE WHERE PEOPLE WHO
INJECT ILLICIT DRUGS SUCH AS
HEROIN AND COCAINE CAN COME AN
INJECT UNDER THE SUPERVISION O
A NURSE.
>> EVERY MORNING, A GROUP OF
ADDICTS FILE IN, THE FIRST O
700 WHO COME EVERY DAY TO SHOO
UP
ALL THEPHERNALIA IS LAID
OUT.
ADDICTS TAKE A SEAT AS ONE OF
DOZEN DIFFERENT BOOTHS TO DO
WHATEVER DRUGS THEY HAVE BEE
ABLE TO BUY ILLEGALLY ON THE
STREET
INSIGHT OPENED IN 2003
IT HAD TO BE GRANTED A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION BY THE LIBERAL
GOVERNMENT OF CANADA TO ALLO
THE USE OF ILLEGAL DRUGS IN
FACILITY THAT IS PARTLY FUNDED
BY TAXPAYERS
>> ON THIS MORNING, A WOMA
NAMED JODY ALLOWED US TO FIL
HER AS SH INJECTED
SHE SAID SHE'S BEEN AN ADDICT ON
THE STREET FOR MORE THAN A
DECADE
SHE'S BEEN SHOOTING UP FOR S
LONG THAT MANY OF HER VEINS AR
COLLAPSED OR COVERED IN SCAR
AND THIS MORNING, AFTER REPEATED
TRIES, SHE CAN'T FIND ONE THAT
WILL WORK.
SO ONE OF THE INSIGHT NURSES
COMES OVER TO HELP HER
>> IT'S ITTY-BITTY
>> I KNOW.
>> EVER SINCE IT OPENED, CRITICS
HAVE BEEN TRYING TO SHUT THI
FACILITY DOWN, BUT NOW
CONSERVATIVE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT
SAYS INSIGHT ENABLES DRUG USE,
NOT PREVENTS IT.
IT'S TRIED TO CLOSE THIS
FACILITY AND PREVENT OTHERS FROM
OPENING IN CANADA.
IN 2005, THE CANADIAN PRIM
MINISTER STEPHEN HARPER SAID W
AS A GOVERNMENT WILL NOT USE
TAXPAYER MONEY TO FUND DRUG USE.
THAT'S NOT THE STRATEGY WE WIL
PER SUE.
BUT IN 2011, THE SUPREME COURT
OF CANADA RULED INSIGHT CAN STAY
OPEN
INSIGHT SUPPORTERS ARGUE THA
NOT ONLY DOES THE FACILITY CUT
DRUG OVERDOSE DEATHS, REDUCE
DISORDER IN THE AREA, AND GE
MORE ADDICTS INTO TREATMEN
PROGRAMS, BUT THEY ARGUE, IT'S
CRUCIAL IN THE CAMPAIGN AGAINS
HIV.
ADDICTS WHO COME HERE CAN GE
TESTED FOR THE DISEASE AND
REFERRED FOR TREATMENT I
THEY'RE POSITIVE
THEY'RE NOT SHARING INFECTED
NEEDLES, AND THEY'RE IN REGULA
CONTACT WITH NURSES AND MEDICA
STAFF WHO WANT TO HELP THEM.
>> ANY LUCK?
>> YEAH.
>> IF THIS FACILITY WASN'T
THERE, THESE PEOPLE WOULD BE
INJECTING IN ALLEYWAYS, RUNNIN
FROM THE POLICE, AND WOULD
CONTINUE TO BE DISCONNECTED FROM
THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
BUT WE'VE NOW FOUND A MECHANIS
TO CONNECT WITH THESE PEOPLE AND
PROVIDE THEM WITH MUCH NEEDE
CARE
>> YOUR CRITICS WOULD ARGU
HAVING SOMEONE ON SIGHT WHO CA
HELP SOMEONE, EVEN A NURSE WHO
COULD HELP SOMEONE FIND A VEIN
THAT IS PARTLY CONDONING AND
MAKING IT EASIER FOR THEM.
WHAT IS YOUR ARGUMENT AGAINS
THAT
>> YOU KNOW, I USED TO THINK THE
SAME WAY AS YOU JUST DESCRIBED
THAT ALL OF THIS WAS ENABLING.
YOU MEAN THAT I'M GOING TO ASK
MY JUNIOR STAFF, MY RESIDENTS,
TO ACTUALLY WITNESS SOMEBODY
INJECTING?
GEEZ, I'M OUT OF MY MIND
WELL, THE PROBLEM IS THAT THIS
IS NOT ABOUT DOING THE RIGHT
THING OR THE WRONG THING
THE ADDICTED PERSON IS
INJECTING.
>> THEY'RE GOING TO DO I
REGARDLESS
>> THIS IS HAPPENING
THIS IS HAPPENING IN EVERY
SINGLE CITY IN AMERICA
SO BY PRETENDING THAT THIS I
NOT HAPPENING, THEN YOU'RE
TAKING THE SAME APPROACH THA
THE PRIME MINISTER OF MY COUNTRY
IS SAYING, SAYING THIS SHALL NOT
HAPPEN
AND SO WHAT?
IT'S STILL HAPPENING, AND HE
WANTS TO CRIMINALIZE IT, AND
HE'S MAKING IT SO IT DOESN'T
WORK
>> THE DATA SHOWS THEIR STRATEGY
HAS BEEN WORKING BY DRAMATICALLY
INCREASING THE PEOPLE TREATE
FOR HIV IN BRITISH COLUMBIA.
THE NUMBER OF NEW CASES OF HIV
HAS BEEN DECREASING, CUT BY MORE
THAN HALF.
EVEN AS THEY'RE LOOKING MORE FOR
THE DISEASE, THEY'RE FINDING
LESS OF IT
THE DOCTOR SAYS NOT ONLY ARE
THEY HELPING PEOPLE, BUT THEY'RE
SPENDING MONEY
FOR EVERY PERSON WHO DOESN'T
CONTRACT HIV, THE GOVERNMENT
SAVES AN ESTIMATED QUARTER OF
MILLION DOLLARS IT DOESN'T HAV
TO SPEND TREATING THAT PERSON.
>> INVESTING MORE ON THE
STRATEGY IS COST SAVING.
NOT JUST COST EFFECTIVE.
IT'S COST AVERTED.
>> SO YOU'RE ARGUING IF YO
SPEND MORE MONEY ON TREATING
ACTIVE HIV CASES, IN THE END
YOU WILL SAVE MORE MONEY BECAUSE
YOU'RE NOT ADDING NEW PATIENTS
TO THE POOL OF INFECTED PEOPLE
>> I'M NOT ARGUING
I'M TELLING YOU.
THIS IS THE WAY IT IS.
I DON'T MEAN TO BE TOO
PROVOCATIVE ABOUT IT, BUT TH
DATA IS IN
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE RANDOMIZED
CLINICAL TRIALS THAT NOW SHO
THAT TREATING STOPS -- VIRTUALLY
STOPS TRANSMISSION
WHAT ELSE DO WE NEED
IT'S OBVIOUS
>> BRITISH COLUMBIA'S SUCCES
HAS PROMPTED CHINESE HEALT
OFFICIALS WHO ARE ALSO GRAPPLING
WITH TWIN EPIDEMICS OF HIV AND
IV DRUG ADDICTION TO HELP FO
VENTION.
THE U.S. IS DOING PILOT STUDIE
IN WASHINGTON, D.C. AND NE
YORK, AND TREATMENT AS
PREVENTION HAS BEEN ADOPTED AS
THE PRINCIPLE HIV STRATEGY B
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION,
U.N. AIDS, AND THE INTERNATIONAL
AIDS SOCIETY
>>> SEE HOW A NURSE AND A DRUG
DEALER ARE WORKING TOGETHER TO
FIGHT HIV AND TUBERCULOSIS I
TANS ANIA.
>>> EXPERTS AT COLUMBIA, M.I.T.,
AND HARVARD HAVE CONCLUDED A
SMALL FRAGMENT MADE PUBLIC TWO
YEARS AGO IS FROM ANCIENT TIMES,
NOT A FORGERY, BUT ITS CONTENT
CONTINUE TO PROVOKE CONTROVERS
BECAUSE IT QUOTES JESUS MAKING
REFERENCE TO, QUOTE, MY WIFE
AND ALSO INCLUDES THE WORDS, SHE
WILL BE ABLE TO BE MY DISCIPLE
FOR MORE ON THAT, WE'RE JOINED
BY MICHAEL, A PROFESSOR OF
THEOLOGY AND AUTHOR OF THE BOO
"THE SON OF GOD IN THE ROMAN
WORLD.
SO FIRST OF ALL, WHAT IS THE
SCIENTIFIC FINDING CONFIRM AND
WHY DOES IT MATTER
>> RIGHT, WHEN THIS CAME T
LIGHT ABOUT A YEAR AND A HAL
AGO, THERE WAS A LOT OF UPROAR
ABOUT WHY WASN'T THIS TESTED
HOW DO WE KNOW THIS ISN'T
FORGERY?
TYPICALLY, THEY'RE TESTED BY THE
STUDY OF HANDWRITING
BUT BECAUSE THERE WAS SUCH A
BOMBSHELL IN THE PHRASE, M
WIFE, AND THEY COMMISSIONED THIS
TO BE SENT OUT FOR TESTING
THE TRUTH ABOUT THE SCIENTIFIC
TESTING IS IT CANNOT
AUTHENTICATE SOMETHING AS MUCH
AS IT CAN PROVE IT'S NOT FAKE.
WHAT I'M SAYING --
>> THERE'S A DIFFERENCE?
>> AS A FAKE, THERE'S
DIFFERENCE
THE TESTING DID NOT FALSIF
ANYTHING, SO THAT KIND OF TILT
THE SCALE A LITTLE BIT BAC
TOWARDS AUTHENTICITY, BUT TH
SCHOLARS WHO STUDY CHRISTIANIT
ARE IN THIS MIDDLE GROUND OF
MYSTERIOUSNESS ABOUT THE TEXT.
THAT BEING SAID, SOME OF THE
CRITICS ON THE FORGERY SID
ARGUE THAT THERE IS BAD GRAMMAR,
THAT THERE IS -- THERE ARE OTHER
INDICATORS, BAD PENMANSHIP, THAT
KIND OF STUFF, BUT PEPROLOGISTS,
NERDS LIKE US WHO STUDY ANCIEN
PUPIERY, WE SEE BAD HANDWRITIN
ALL THE TIME
THE APOSTLE PAUL IN THE NE
TESTAMENT TALKS ABOUT HIS BA
HANDWRITING.
IT'S A SKILL THAT'S ACQUIRED AND
WE MIGHT THINK OF TYPING IN TH
MODERN WORLD, RIGHT?
>> RIGHT
>> IT DOESN'T MEAN YOU'RE SMAR
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
>> TO A NON-CHRISTIAN SCHOLAR,
WHAT ARE THE RELIGIOUS
RAMIFICATIONS IF JESUS DID HAV
A WIFE
WHY DOES THAT MATTER SO MUCH
>> RIGHT, SO WHAT WE HAVE HERE
IS PROBABLY IN SEVENTH OR EIGHTH
CENTURY PUPIEEROUS, WHICH IF
AUTHENTIC, PRESERVES AN EARLIE
TEXT WHICH REALLY DOESN'T TELL
US ANYTHING ABOUT THE FIRS
CENTURY.
WE HAVE LAYERS OF HISTORY.
I WOULD SAY MOST SCHOLARS DON'
THINK JESUS WAS MARRIED AND
DON'T THINK THAT'S A PIOUS
ANSWER
IT'S ABOUT HISTORICA
PLAUSIBILITY THAT HE WAS A
ITINERANT TEACHER.
HE SAYS VERY CONTROVERSY THING
CRITICAL OF BIOLOGICAL AND
DOMESTIC FAMILY LIFE
ALREADY THERE IN THE SCRIPTURES,
AND I THINK THAT MOST SCHOLARS
AND MOST CHRISTIANS WILL SAY
WELL, WE DON'T THINK JESUS WAS
MARRIED AND WE THINK THIS IS A
LATER DISCUSSION ABOUT THE ROLES
OF WOMEN DUSIPALS AND SEX AN
FAMILY LIFE, BUT THAT IS
INTERESTING FOR A DIFFEREN
REASON TO MOST SCHOLARS IN WHICH
WE WOULD SAY THIS PAPYRUS GIVE
US ANOTHER WINDOW INTO WHAT WERE
LIVE DEBATES IN EARL
CHRISTIANITY, SUCH AS IS
PROCREATION A VEHICLE FO
HOLINESS OR IS VOLUNTARY
CELIBACY A VEHICLE FOR HOLYNESS,
AND A SECOND DEBATE, IS TH
WORTHINESS OF WOMEN AS
DISCIPLES, ESPECIALLY TWO OF THE
FIGURES DISCUSSED.
>> MICHAEL, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>> THIS IS PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY
>>> IT MIGHT NEVER HAVE OCCURRED
TO YOU, BUT A SINGLE ROUND-TRI
FLIGHT BETWEEN CHICAGO AND
FRANKFURT, GERMANY, BURNED ABOUT
3.5 TONS OF CARBON DIOXIDE
THAT'S ABOUT WHAT A MEDIUM SIZED
CAR IN THE UNITED STATES BURNS
FOR AN ENTIRE YEAR
THIS WEEK, A COUPLE OF SWISS
AVIATORS ANNOUNCED ANOTHER STE
TO REDUCE THE CARBON FOOTPRINT
OF FLYING.
THEY MAY HAVE READ THE MYT
ABOUTICEROUS DYING AFTER FLYIN
TOO CLOSE TO THE SUN, BUT THAT
HARDLY HAS DETERRED THESE TW
MEN.
THIS IS A HUGE SOLAR POWERED
PLANE THAT HAS A WING SPAN WIDER
THAN A 747'S, AS BIG AS IT IS,
THE BIG AIRCRAFT IS NO HEAVIER
THAN A LARGE CAR, AND IT CARRIES
JUST THE PILOT
IT'S COVERED IN MORE THAN 17,000
SOLAR CELLS.
THE DESIGNERS AND PILOTS HAV
MADE SEVERAL LONG TRIPS ON A
PREVIOUS VERSION OF THE PLANE,
INCLUDING A FLIGHT ACROSS TH
MEDITERRANEAN FROM SWITZERLAND
TO MOROCCO
THEY SAY THE NEW PLANE IS EVEN
BETTER
>> WE HAVE THE BEST ELECTRICAL
MOTORS, THE LIGHTEST POSSIBL
STRUCTURE, THE LIGHTEST -- THE
MOST EFFICIENT CONSUMING
ELECTRICITY PRODUCT IN THE
AIRPLANES.
>> ALL THIS, HE PREDICTS, WILL
MEAN THE PLANE'S THOUSANDS O
SOLAR CELLS CAN HARNESS ENOUGH
ENERGY FROM THE SUN TO KEEP TH
PLANE IN THE SKY DAY AND NIGHT
HE BETTER BE RIGHT BECAUSE H
AND HIS PARTNER ARE PLANNING T
FLY THE PLANE AROUND THE WORLD
SOME TIME NEXT YEAR, A JOURNEY
THEY EXPECT WILL TAKE 500 HOUR
OF FLYING, MANY OF THOSE OVE
THE WORLD'S VAST OCEANS.
>> WHEN WE LEAVE THE COAST O
CHINA, WE GO TOWARDS WHAT LOOK
LIKE THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
OCEAN.
>> IT IS THAT UNCERTAINTY WHIC
IS BOTH THE RISK AND THE
ADVENTURE.
>>> WE'RE TURNING TO THAT STOR
FROM OVERLAND PARK, KANSAS
AUTHORITIES ARE REPORTING AT
LEAST THREE PEOPLE WERE KILLED
IN SHOOTINGS AT A JEWISH
COMMUNITY CENTER AND A JEWIS
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY
A TEENAGER IS HOSPITALIZED I
CRITICAL CONDITION
A SUSPECT HAS BEEN TAKEN INT
CUSTODY.
THE FBI IS REPORTEDLY INVOLVED
IN THE INVESTIGATION
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN